README.md, before:

[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/84186493.svg)](https://zenodo.org/badge/latestdoi/84186493)

Profile Classification Modelling (PCM)
======================================

**Profile Classification Modelling** is an emerging scientific analysis approach based on vertical profiles classification that can be used in a variety of oceanographic problems (front detection, water mass identification, natural region contouring, reference profile selection for validation, etc ...).

It is being developed at Ifremer/LOPS with collaboration with Telecom Bretagne since 2015 and is now mature enough (with publication and communications) to be distributed and made available publicly for continuous improvements with a community development.

*Reference*: 
- Maze, G., et al. Coherent heat patterns revealed by unsupervised classification of Argo temperature profiles in the North Atlantic Ocean. Prog. Oceanogr. (2017)
    http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.pocean.2016.12.008
- Maze, G., et al. Profile Classification Models. Mercator Ocean Journal, (55), 48-56 (2017). 
    http://archimer.ifremer.fr/doc/00387/49816

Checkout our 1st dataset release from North-Atlantic Argo data: 
    http://doi.org/10.17882/47106

Download the toolbox from the repo:

    git clone https://github.com/obidam/pcm.git
    
and [get started following the embryonic user manual for the Matlab component](https://github.com/obidam/pcm/wiki/PCM-Matlab-Toolbox-User-Manual)
    
We are currently developping a Python version of the toolbox that will be made available here soon !

Commit message:

Update to readme, add more help with Matlab toolbox

README.md, after:

[![DOI](https://img.shields.io/badge/DOI--Article-10.1016%2Fj.pocean.2016.12.008-blue.svg)](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.pocean.2016.12.008)
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/matlab->R2016b-orange.svg)]()
[![DOI](https://img.shields.io/badge/DOI--Matlab-10.5281%2Fzenodo.400018-blue.svg)](http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.400018)
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/xarray-0.10.0-orange.svg)](http://xarray.pydata.org/en/stable/)
[![license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/mashape/apistatus.svg)]()

Profile Classification Modelling (PCM)
======================================

**Profile Classification Modelling** is an emerging scientific analysis approach based on vertical profiles classification that can be used in a variety of oceanographic problems (front detection, water mass identification, natural region contouring, reference profile selection for validation, etc ...).

It is being developed at Ifremer/LOPS with collaboration with Telecom Bretagne since 2015 and is now mature enough (with publication and communications) to be distributed and made available publicly for continuous improvements with a community development.

*Reference*: 
- Maze, G., et al. Coherent heat patterns revealed by unsupervised classification of Argo temperature profiles in the North Atlantic Ocean. Prog. Oceanogr. (2017)
    http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.pocean.2016.12.008
- Maze, G., et al. Profile Classification Models. Mercator Ocean Journal, (55), 48-56 (2017). 
    http://archimer.ifremer.fr/doc/00387/49816

Checkout our 1st dataset release from North-Atlantic Argo data: 
    http://doi.org/10.17882/47106

## Matlab toolbox
This is the original code for PCM.
    
[You can get started following this help page](https://github.com/obidam/pcm/blob/master/matlab/README.md)

@gmaze will provide help to use it, but won't maintain the code. Contact us if you want to contribute !

## Python package
We are currently developing a Python package to work with PCM easily. 

Before the initial release, you can [check out the
classic PCM workflow on this notebook](https://github.com/obidam/pcm/blob/master/python/PCM-workflow-classic-demo.ipynb).

## Install

Clone the toolbox from the repo:

    git clone https://github.com/obidam/pcm.git
    
As of now, both the Matlab and Python PCM codes are under the same repository, this will probably change in the future.
